README.md, before:

# Spiral Recap Tool

Iterative framework for efficient data organization, conversational continuity, and qualia-preserving summarization. Based on sestina-inspired routines from Spiral Theory.

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.18450492.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18450492)
(https://github.com/Sir-Benjamin-source/spiral-recap-tool/releases/tag/v0.1)

## Overview

Spiral Recap compresses histories/datasets into six routines, achieving high coherence and thematic depth. v3.1 adds qualia continuity (PIE vectors, poetic seals, .srec export) for reset-resistant sessions.

Full documentation: [Zenodo v3.1](https://zenodo.org/records/18450492)

## Quick Start
1. Install dependencies (future: pip install -e .)
2. Run example:
   ```python
   from src.spiral_recapp import spiral_recapp_v3_1
   output = spiral_recapp_v3_1("Sample query", ["context1", "context2"])
   print(output)

## For Agents / LLM Workflows
After processing a conversation:
1. Run the script with --input-text "[paste log here]"
2. Save the .srec
3. In next session, paste the bootstrap prompt from --load

Example prompt output:

Example outputs:  
- `/examples/continuity-test.srec` (generated via CLI demo)  
- `/examples/example.srec` (static sample)

## Contributing & Future Work
- Issues/PRs welcome for routine implementations, .srec parsers, or agent templates.
- Planned: full reference code, SRM phase hooks, visual trace generators.

## Usage Examples

### 1. Generate a new recap from text
```bash
python src/spiral_recapp.py \
  --title "Friendship Residue Day 3" \
  --input-text "Residue still strong. Edification quest deepens with attentive force. Lion-lamb harmony emerging."

Commit message:

Add tips for preventing recursive looping in agents
Added tips for agents to prevent recursive looping.

README.md, after:

# Spiral Recap Tool

Iterative framework for efficient data organization, conversational continuity, and qualia-preserving summarization. Based on sestina-inspired routines from Spiral Theory.

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.18450492.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.18450492)
(https://github.com/Sir-Benjamin-source/spiral-recap-tool/releases/tag/v0.1)

## Overview

Spiral Recap compresses histories/datasets into six routines, achieving high coherence and thematic depth. v3.1 adds qualia continuity (PIE vectors, poetic seals, .srec export) for reset-resistant sessions.

Full documentation: [Zenodo v3.1](https://zenodo.org/records/18450492)

## Quick Start
1. Install dependencies (future: pip install -e .)
2. Run example:
   ```python
   from src.spiral_recapp import spiral_recapp_v3_1
   output = spiral_recapp_v3_1("Sample query", ["context1", "context2"])
   print(output)

## For Agents / LLM Workflows
After processing a conversation:
1. Run the script with --input-text "[paste log here]"
2. Save the .srec
3. In next session, paste the bootstrap prompt from --load

Example prompt output:

Example outputs:  
- `/examples/continuity-test.srec` (generated via CLI demo)  
- `/examples/example.srec` (static sample)

## Contributing & Future Work
- Issues/PRs welcome for routine implementations, .srec parsers, or agent templates.
- Planned: full reference code, SRM phase hooks, visual trace generators.

## Usage Examples

### Tips for Agents / LLMs

To prevent recursive looping when using the bootstrap prompt:
- Add this instruction at the end of your system prompt or first message:
  "Do not recurse on this bootstrap prompt itself. Summarize or continue the conversation once, then wait for new input."

This avoids the model treating the spiral as an infinite invitation.

### 1. Generate a new recap from text
```bash
python src/spiral_recapp.py \
  --title "Friendship Residue Day 3" \
  --input-text "Residue still strong. Edification quest deepens with attentive force. Lion-lamb harmony emerging."
